Comparative Evaluation of Artificial Neural Networks, Multiple Linear
Regression, K-nearest Neighbour, Random Forests, Gradient Boosting, and
ARIMA. A Case Study of Rainfall Forecasting in Selangor.

Forecasting rainfall in Selangor by using machine learning techniques

DATA SCIENCE PROJECT II

MUHAMMAD ZAMIL SYAFIQ BIN ZANZALI

DR TAY CHAI JIAN

Bachelor of Applied Science in Data Analytics with Honours
Centre for Mathematical Sciences

Universiti Malaysia Pahang Al-Sultan Abdullah
January                        2025


FACULTY SUPERVISOR’S DECLARATION

I hereby declare that I have checked this Data Science Project I Report. In my opinion,
this project proposal is adequate in terms of its scope and quality for the award of
Bachelor                                               of Applied Science in Data Analytics with 
Honours.

(Faculty Supervisor’s Signature)
Full Name  : DR TAY CHAI JIAN

Position   :

Date     :


STUDENT’S DECLARATION

I hereby declare that the work in this Data Science Project I Report is based on my
original work.

(Student’s Signature)

Full Name  : MUHAMMAD ZAMIL SYAFIQ BIN ZANZALI

ID Number  : SD22046
Date      :


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Acknowledgements, acknowledgements.


ABSTRACT

Accurate rainfall forecasts are essential in planning and management of floods, water
resources, and agriculture. This is particularly critical in a region like Selangor in
Malaysia where rainfall patterns are highly variable. In this region extreme events such
as too much or too little rainfall are often. This unpredictability poses a challenge to
effective planning by the government. This study aims to identify machine learning
algorithms that can be used for accurate rainfall forecasting, compare the performance of

different models, and select the best model that can be deployed as part of an early

precipitationwarning system. Hist       ected between 2012 and 2020 will be used. The target

^

variable will be precipitation. The predictors will be average temperature, wind speed,
and relative humidity. The machine learning algorithms that will be evaluated are:
Artificial Neural Networks, Multiple Linear Regression, K-nearest Neighbour, Random
Forests, Gradient Boosting, and ARIMA. Data will be pre-processed by mean imputation
of missing values, removing observations outside expected range, and normalization.
Root mean squared error, mean absolute error, and R squared will be used to evaluate
model performance. This study will demonstrate the value of machine learning in rainfall
forecasting and provide actionable insights that will be used in strategic planning and
management.


Table of Contents

CHAPTER 1    INTRODUCTION                          1

1.1   Research Background                                    1

1.2   Problem Statement                                      2

1.3   Research Questions                                      4

1.4   Research Objectives                                     4

1.5   Research Scopes                                       4

1.6   Significance of Study                                     5

CHAPTER 2    LITERATURE REVIEW                      5

2.1   Introduction                                          5

2.2   Challenges in Rainfall Forecasting                              6

2.3   Overview of Machine Learning Techniques for Rainfall Prediction            7

2.3.1  Support Vector Machines (SVM)                             8

2.3.2  Gradient Boosting                                    10

2.3.3  Random Forest (RF)                                   11

2.3.4  Decision Tree (DT)                                   13

2.3.5  Artificial Neural Networks (ANN)                           14

2.3.6  Logistic Regression                                   15

2.3.7  K-Nearest Neighbor (K-NN)                              16

2.3.8  ARIMA                                          17

2.4   Summary                                          18

CHAPTER 3    METHODOLOGY                         25

3.1   Introduction                                         25

3.2   Research Design                                      25

3.3   Data Science Methodology                                 25

3.3.1  Literature Review                                    26

3.3.2  Problem Identification                                  27

3.3.3  Data Collection                                      27

3.3.4  Data Preprocessing                                    27

3.3.5  Model Training                                      28

3.3.6  Model Evaluation and Comparison                           29


3.3.7  Deployment                                       30

CHAPTER 4   EXPECTED OUTCOMES AND CONCLUSIONS   ERROR!
BOOKMARK NOT DEFINED.

4.1   Introduction                                         35

4.2   Expected Outcomes                                     35

4.3   Conclusions                                         37

REFERENCES                                      17


LIST OF TABLES

Table 2.1 Table of Summary                           25


LIST OF FIGURES

Figure number should follow the Chapters.

Figure 1 Data Science Methodology                       26

Figure 2 Logistic Regression                           31

Figure 3 Random Forest                              31

Figure 4 K-Nearest Neighbour                          32

Figure 5 Finding Optimal value of K                       33

Figure 6 K-NN                                   33

Figure 7 Artificial Neural Network                        34

Figure 8 Random Forest Regression                       36

Figure 9 Correlation Matrix                            37


LIST OF SYMBOLS


LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

ML        Machine Learning


NWP
MAE
SVM
ANN
RMSE
RF
DT

k-NN
IQR

𝑅2

Numerical Weather Prediction
Mean            Absolute Error

Support Vector Machine
Artificial Neural Network
Root Mean Square Error
Random Forest

Decision Tree

K-Nearest Neighbor
Interquartile    Range
Coefficient of Determination


CHAPTER 1

Introduction

1.1  Research Background

Rainfall patterns in Selangor region of Malaysia fluctuate widely partially driven by the
tropical climate. In Selangor precipitation patterns are significantly influenced by tropical
climate with the heaviest rainfall happening between October and December. November is the
peak of this season where 324 mm of rainfall is experienced across 28 days. In October 222
mm of rainfall is experienced while in December 246 mm of rainfall is experienced. At the
beginning of the year the amount of rainfall is relatively lower. January and February receive
148 mm and 102 mm respectively. However, April receives a rainfall of 241 mm which is
comparable to precipitation received in peak season. During the summer months of June and
July relatively lower rainfall amounts of 145 mm and 135 mm respectively are received
(Nomadseason, 2025). These seasonal patterns have a major influence on local ecosystems as
well as agriculture activities and water management. The Malaysian Meteorological
Department (2025) analysed annual rainfall data from 1951 to 2023 and found there has been
an upward trend in the amount of rainfall received in the country. This points to climate change
that can lead to higher temperatures, rising sea levels, often occurrence of extreme events such
as floods, disruption of habitats and agricultural activities, and economic losses. These
fluctuations make it difficult to accurately forecast climate patterns. Climatic events such as
frequent and heavy rainfall can lead to crop failure, floods, and water contamination. Similarly,
seasons such as the monsoon have a significant influence on rainfall and its distribution. The
Department of Irrigation and Drainage Malaysia (2025) describes monsoon rains as “typically
of long duration with intermittent heavy bursts and the intensity can occasionally exceed
several hundred mm in 24 hours”. This can lead to floods in urban areas and disruption of
agricultural activities. Accurate forecasting will help the Selangor State Government in
mitigating the effects of these events. Equipped with accurate forecasts the state government
can put in place well planned emergency as well as disaster and preparedness strategies.

1


Machine learning models have become a critical tool in analysis of meteorological data. When
comparing machine learning models with conventional Numerical Weather Prediction models,
it has been observed machine learning models are superior at detecting intricate numerical and
non-linear patterns in data (Bouallègue et al., 2024). This makes machine learning a suitable
approach for predicting rainfall in a tropical region like Selangor. Large amounts of
meteorological data can be analysed using machine learning techniques such as support vector
machines (SVM), gradient boosting, and artificial neural networks (ANN) to provide accurate
temporal estimations. These methods that will be discussed later, use historical data such as
temperature, humidity, wind speed, and rainfall to provide accurate forecasts which were
hitherto impossible using traditional techniques such as linear regression.

The problem is critical in places such as Selangor, where rainy conditions have not been
accurately forecasting posing several difficulties. Hydrological functions enhanced by better
rainfall predictions enable timely decisions in crop production, disaster management including
floods and landslides, and water management. Due to improved accuracy levels of predictions,
stakeholders will be in a position to save structures from destruction, people from hunger as
well as resources from wastage.

Recent advances in machine learning have expanded possibilities for improving rainfall
forecasting. Machine learning methods like support vector machines, gradient boosting, and
artificial neural networks have shown great potential in capturing both temporal and spatial
patterns of rainfall. These models are able to improve forecasts by continuously learning from
new data. In Selangor, using machine learning techniques and local meteorological data
presents an opportunity to develop a forecasting system that is highly accurate.

1.2  Problem Statement

Climate change has received significant global attention due to disastrous events it can
cause. Rainfall is a major meteorological factor that is influenced by climate change. In
Malaysia, rainfall patterns have changed causing floods and droughts. Selangor is one the states
that has been affected by these changes in rainfall patterns. Disastrous floods happened
consecutively in the years 2006 to 2008 and in the years 2010 and 2011. The years 1997, 1998,
and 2008 had catastrophic dry periods (Talib et al., 2024). Agricultural decisions and
productivity are significantly influenced by environmental variables particularly the amount of
water available and rainfall. In Selangor the influence of these variables is significant and a

2


threat to agricultural productivity. High and low rainfall affects crops. Although it is possible
to mitigate low rainfall through irrigation, high rainfall usually damages crops and results in
low agricultural productivity. Mitigation measures such as changing crop cycles and combining
crop cycles have not been adequate. To adequately solve these problems technological
solutions are required (Alam, 2021).

One of the technological solutions that can be used is availing accurate rainfall
predictions. However, due to irregular occurrence of rainfall in Timur Region Selangor
accurate prediction is difficult. This situation can harm farming, cause floods, and cause
difficulties in water resources planning. Traditional models such as linear regression may not
provide accurate precipitation forecast especially in the tropics because the atmospheric
behaviour is not easy to predict. For example, Kassem et al. (2021) reported artificial neural
networks were superior to linear regression in predicting monthly rainfall in Northern Cyprus.
That study showed artificial neural networks were better at capturing relationships in
coordinates, meteorological variables, and rainfall resulting in more accurate prediction
compared to linear regression. Traditional models such as linear regression are weak at
capturing complex relationships especially when they are non-linear. Compared to models such
as support vector machines and artificial neural networks, linear regression models are poor at
handling non-linear relationships. Conversely, support vector machines and artificial neural
networks are difficult to interpret, computationally costly, and require large amounts of data
(Goodfellow et al., 2023; Murphy, 2022). Modern meteorological research does not face the
limitations of small datasets and limited computational power that were prevalent several
decades ago. Meteorological instruments and IoT sensors have enabled accumulation of large
datasets. This situation enables use of advanced machine learning models such as support
vector machines and artificial neural networks in predicting rainfall. Specifically, in Selangor
large volumes of meteorological data are available. Therefore, these advanced machine
learning models can be used to accurate predict rainfall patterns. Insights obtained will be
useful in agricultural, infrastructure, public health, and water management planning.

3


1.3  Research Questions

The specific research questions that will be investigated in this study are:

i.   What are the machine learning models that can be used for rainfall prediction in
Selangor?

ii.   How does the performance of different machine learning models differ?

iii.   What is the best model in forecasting rainfall pattern in Selangor?

1.4  Research Objectives

The broad objective of this study is to investigate the use of machine learning models in
predicting rainfall in Selangor region of Malaysia. The specific objectives are:

i.   To employ machine learning models that can be used for predicting rainfall in
Selangor.

ii.    To estimate and assess the performance of different machine learning models using
performance metrics such as mean absolute error (MAE), mean squared error (MSE),
root                                              mean squared error (RMSE), and R-squared.

iii.  To identify the best model for forecasting rainfall patterns in Selangor by comparing
performance metrics and selecting the model witthhheighest accuracy.

^

1.5  Research Scopes

in

This research deals with rainfall prediction for Selangor^Malaysia where the rainfall has
irregular tropical pattern and significantly affects sectors such as water supply and flood

control, agriculture. These problems will be addressed in this work by utilising and comparing
a number of machine learning algorithms with support vector machines (SVM), gradient
boosting, and artificial neural networks (ANN). These methods were chosen due to the
possibility of the interpretation of which dependencies – both linear and nonlinear ones – are
present in the data. In the present study, meteorological data from Sepang/KL International
Airport is employed for data analysis where necessary climatic factors embracing average
temperature, relative humidity, wind velocity, and precipitation for the years between 2012 and
2020  are utilised. This is to make certain that the data collected are accurate and reliable to

4


increase the efficiency of data analysis after it has been fed into the system therefore data
cleaning, normalization of data, handling of missing values and feature engineering will be
undertaken.To fully assess predictive performance, the model will be evaluated using measures
like the Coefficient of Determination (R^2), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and Root Mean


Square Error (RMSE).

What is the software used?

1.6  Significance of Study

The research focus on using machine learning for rainfall forecasting in Selangor.
Machine                                                 learning techniques utilize historical data 
to identify complex relationships, resulting
in more precise and current forecasts. This study improves the scientific understanding of based
on rainfall forecasting by evaluating how well different machine learning algorithms capture
detailed tropical rainfall patterns. It represents a major breakthrough in environmental
prediction and building resilience since it expands the use of machine learning for tropical
weather forecasting and offers a structure that can be adjusted for different climates. The
forecasting results could help the government in enhancing disaster readiness.


Start Chapter 2 at a new page.

CHAPTER 2

Literature Review

2.1  Introduction

In tropical regions such as Selangor in Malaysia where extreme events such as high or
low rainfall happen; accurate rainfall forecasting is critical. When managers are provided with
accurate predictions, they are better placed to put mitigation measures in place. These measures
can help in management of disruptive events such as floods, agricultural crop failure, and
disruptions in water supply. Machine learning has emerged as a powerful technique for
analysing rainfall data, discovering patterns in meteorological data, and accurately predicting
rainfall. This chapter presents an exhaustive review of existing literature on use of machine

5


learning for forecasting rainfall. Specifically, the strengths and limitations of each study are
evaluated to identify research gaps that can be addressed in this study and future studies.

2.2  Challenges in Rainfall Forecasting

Numerous studies have well documented challenges faced when predicting rainfall.
Kundu et al. (2023) have discussed some of these challenges. These authors note the primary
challenge is the wide variability in rainfall patterns. Other challenges are scarcity of relevant
meteorological variables such as soil, humidity, wind and temperature parameters which are
essential. When these variables are not available the accuracy of prediction models is severely
affected. Other human activities such as deforestation can also negatively affect the accuracy
of rainfall prediction models. Even when advanced methodologies are used accurate prediction
of rainfall is challenging as large volumes of data and collaboration are required.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (2024) notes forecasting
weather phenomena is a difficult skill that requires meticulous observation and analyzing large
amounts of data. Weather phenomena can be characteristically thunderstorms covering large
areas or a small area that can last for a few hours or several days. The phases involved in
weather                                            forecasting are observation, prediction, and 
dissemination of results.

Ray et al. (2021) discuss various challenges faced in predicting rainfall driven by
landfalling tropical cyclones in India. Rainfall from these tropical cyclones especially when
approaching landfall varies widely and is usually asymmetric. This pattern is often caused by
wind, speed, land surface, and moisture parameters. That study found that increase or decrease
in intensity of a tropical storm as it approached the coastline during landfall can change the
characteristics of rainfall over land.

Selangor is a typical tropical environment characterized by widely fluctuating rainfall
patterns. This variation makes accurate rainfall prediction challenging. These challenges arise
because rainfall patterns are influenced by intricate relationships among atmospheric factors
like variations temperature, humidity, and windspeed. Rainfall predictions are usually obtained
from large scale computerized simulations of weather systems. Use of traditional prediction

6


methods like numerical weather prediction fails at capturing events that happen in isolated
areas. Furthermore, this problem is severe in areas that have widely varying rainfall patterns
such as Selangor. These models are further limited by their high cost and their lack of flexibility
to adjust to changes in rainfall patterns in real time. Machine learning is a viable alternative for
overcoming challenges faced by these traditional models. Particularly, machine learning
models are suited to capturing complex and non-linear relationships that exist in meteorological
data. With these capabilities machine learning models are an essential tool for discovering
patterns that exist in historical meteorological data.

2.3  Overview of Machine Learning Techniques for Rainfall Prediction

Machine learning models are well suited to capture non-linear relationships that are a
common feature in meteorological variables like temperature, windspeed, humidity, and
precipitation. This makes machine learning models a robust technique for analysing
meteorological data. This section presents an exhaustive review of literature that has examined
use of different machine learning models for rainfall prediction.

Wani et al., (2024) compared use of “artificial neural network (ANN), random forest
(RF), support vector regression (SVR), k-nearest neighbour (KNN), long-short term memory
(LSTM), bi-directional LSTM, deep LSTM, gated recurrent unit (GRU), and simple recurrent
neural network (RNN)” for rainfall forecasting. Time series techniques such autoregressive
integrated moving average (ARIMA) and Box-Cox transformations were also investigated.
Evaluation of prediction accuracy using metrics such as using root mean square error and mean
absolute error revealed deep learning techniques achieved the highest accuracy in rainfall
prediction. Machine learning techniques were second while time series models were third.
When comparing individual deep learning methods, the order from the highest to lowest

accuracy was “bi-directional LSTM, LSTM, RNN, deep LSTM, and GRU”. When comparing


the

the

individual machine learning models, the order the order from highest to lowest accuracy was

^     ^

“ANN, KNN, SVR, and RF”. In subsequent sections literature on use of these different
methods                                                   for rainfall prediction will be examined.

7


2.3.1 Support Vector Machines (SVM)

Support vector machines is one of the supervised techniques that has been successfully
applied in predicting quantitative variables and classification of categorical variables. A key
strength of support vector machines is their ability to find a separation even when the feature
space is not linearly separable. Support vector machines achieve this by projecting to a high
dimensional feature space. This projection happens in two stages. In the first stage a separation
space  is identified. The second stage involves modification of data to achieve separation using
a hyperplane. These new features in the data are then used to make a decision on the category
where a new record will be assigned.

Support vector machines are suited to capturing non-linear relationships and have been
used for time series applications such as “prediction, pattern recognition, and multiple non-
linear regression”. Support vector machines avail options of four kernel functions which are
linear, polynomial, radial basis function (RBF) and sigmoid. The latter three functions are non-
linear and suitable for capturing non-linear relationships. This makes support vector machines
appropriate for weather data that usually have complex and non-linear relationships (Ashok &
Pekkat, 2024).

Several studies have used support vector machines to predict rainfall using historical
meteorological data. Praveena et al. (2023) used support vector machine learning and logistic
regression. In that study hyperparameter tuning achieved an impressive accuracy of 88%. This
demonstrates the superiority of support vector machines in capturing complex relationships in
high dimensional data. Thus, support vector machines are a viable technique for predicting
rainfall using complex meteorological variables.

Hayaty et al. (2023) used support vector machines to predict rainfall in a city in
Indonesia. The objective of that study was to investigate the performance of support vector
machines. The predictors of rainfall were “temperature, humidity, and wind speed”. The
support vector machine model achieved an accuracy of 82% and ROC curve evaluation showed
the model had a score of 0.74. From the results of that study, it is evident support vector
machines are good at distinguishing positive and negative rainfall events.

Hapsari et al. (2020) used a support vector machined optimized using stochastic gradient
descent to predict rainfall. Use of this optimization was novel as rainfall forecasting usually

uses a linear threshold. The predictors were “atmospheric pressure, sea level pressure, wind

8


direction, wind speed, and relative humidity”. A training and test subset ratio of 80% to 20%
was used. Simulation results revealed support vector machines had better accuracy compared
to traditional methods such as time series forecasting. This is an indication support vector
machines are a promising tool for meteorological forecasting as it can accommodate more
predictors to better capture the relationship to rainfall.

Due to bias predictions obtained from numerical weather prediction (NWP), Yin et al.
(2022) compared support vector machines to other methods for rainfall forecasting in Japan.
The other methods investigated were “quantile mapping (QM), cumulative distribution
function (CDFt), and a combination of support vector machines and QM”. Results revealed
when support vector machines were used alone, there was a significant improvement in
correlation. However, support vector machines faced the limitation of underestimating hourly
and heavy rainfall occurrences. QM and CDFt successfully mitigated bias in SVM but had
limitations in mitigating rainband location. A hybrid method incorporating support vector
machines and QM demonstrated consistency in predicting extreme events although the model
was observed to overestimate rainfall.

Al-Mahdawi et al. (2023) used support vector machines and monthly data from 1901 to
2022 to predict rainfall. Results showed the forecast accuracy of different months varied. For
example, the root mean square, mean squared error, and mean absolute error of months such
as June, July, and August were zero suggesting a very high accuracy. However, in January
these metrics were observed as 5.51, 30.38, and 3.03 suggesting a relatively low accuracy.
Despite the lower accuracy observed in some months, support vector machines are still a useful
technique for forecasting rainfall.

Du et al. (2021) used a support vector machine optimized using particle swarm
optimization to classify rain events. Use of this optimization is novel as a linear threshold is
frequently used. An 80% to 20% ratio was used for splitting the training and testing subsets
and a radial basis kernel was used. The variables used in the study were “atmospheric pressure,
sea level pressure, wind direction, wind speed, relative humidity, and precipitation”. Data were
pre-processed by checking expected range of values and normalization. Results showed
support vector machines with particle swarm optimization were a promising technique for
forecasting precipitation accurately.

9


Velasco et al. (2022) used support vector regression to predict rainfall using data
collected over a 17- month period. A radial basis function kernel was used. Other parameters
used were “c = 100, g = 1, e = 0.1, and p = 0.001. The model achieved a mean square error of

3.46 demonstrating an acceptable accuracy between actual and predicted values. This suggests
with proper data pre-processing and parameter tuning support vector regression is a viable
technique for rainfall forecasting.

2.3.2 Gradient Boosting

Gradient boosting is an ensemble learner that provides high prediction accuracy using
multiple weak learners. Usually, decision trees are selected as the weak learner. This learning
proceeds through sequential fitting of residuals from the previous learner to a new learner and
updating the ensemble. This process is iterated until a pre-specified criterion is met (Masui,
2024).

Numerous studies have used gradient boosting to predict rainfall. Anwar et al. (2020)
used gradient boosting to predict rainfall using daily data collected over a seven-year period.
The predictors were temperature, humidity, sun exposure, and wind parameters. The model
showed relative humidity and minimum temperature were the most important predictors of
rainfall. Model evaluation showed the model achieved root mean square error and mean
absolute error values of 2.7 and 8.8 respectively. An often-observed limitation of gradient
boosting which is overfitting was evident in that study. The best root mean square error was
observed at five iterations. After that the test error started increasing which is an indication of
overfitting.

Poola and Sekhar (2021) used XGBOOST and monthly data collected between 1987 and
2017 to predict rainfall. R statistical software was used to analyze data. Autocorrelation and
partial autocorrelation functions were used for model assessment. The model achieved an
accuracy of 95%.

Nuthalapati and Nuthalapati (2024) compared various models such as “k-nearest
neighbors, support vector machine, gradient boosting, XGBOOST, logistic regression, and
random forest” to asses their performance in predicting rainfall using daily data. Predictors
were temperature, wind, and sun parameters. The accuracies of the models were: 76.87%,
77.55%, 70.07%, 80.95%, 80.95%, and 72.79%. These results demonstrate the superiority of

XGBOOST over other machine learning algorithms.

10


Cui et al. (2021) used a hybrid SSA-LightGBM model consisting of singular spectrum
analysis (SSA) and LightGBM. SSA was used to decompose the time series while a LightGBM
was used to capture trend and variation. The hybrid SSA-LightGBM was superior to use of
LightGBM or LSTM alone.

Sanches et al. (2024) investigated use of XGBOOST for predicting rainfall using daily
data collected between 1989 and 2019 in Sao Paulo. Classification and regression were done.
Results showed in classification an accuracy of 90% was achieved. In the regression task a
mean absolute error of 3mm was observed.

Maaloul and Lejdel (2023) compared five algorithms which are “random forest, decision
tree, naïve Bayes, gradient boosting, and artificial neural networks”. Comparison of these
models revealed gradient boosting achieved an accuracy of more than 98% in rainfall
forecasting.                                            This demonstrates the superiority of 
gradient boosting compared to other models.

Zhuang and DeGaetano (2024) Used LightGBM to classify rainfall events using daily
data collected over 10 years in different parts of Australia. The target variable was a yes/no
indicator of rainfall. The predictors were temperature, rainfall, sunshine, wind, humidity, and
cloud parameters. The LightGBM parameters tuned were “number of estimators, learning rate,
number of leaves, lambda, and alpha”. A 10-fold cross-validation was incorporated into model
training. One subset of 60% was used for model training while two subsets each consisting of
20% were used for model testing. Comparison to other models published in the literature
revealed LightGBM had comparable accuracy with random forest and gradient boosting but
had better accuracy when compared to k-nearest neighbor and a support vector machine using
a linear kernel.

2.3.3 Random Forest (RF)

Random Forest (RF) is an ensemble learning method that creates multiple decision trees
using subsets of data and features selected randomly. There are two major steps in the
algorithm. In the first step every tree in the forest is trained using a bootstrap sample. This
happens at every node where a random subset is used to identify the best split. This minimizes
overfitting and correlation among trees. In the second step predictions are obtained by
combining output from all the trees. In classification tasks majority voting is used while in
regression averaging is used. This approach makes random forests achieve high accuracy,

11


robustness, suitable for complex data, and minimizes the weakness of individual decision trees
(Talekar and Agrawal 2020).

Several studies have investigated use of random forests for rainfall prediction.
Raniprima et al. (2024) compared random forests and decision trees for prediction a binary
outcome rain/not rain. The predictors were temperature, humidity, and wind parameters.
Results showed a random forest had an accuracy of 95.65% while a decision tree had an
accuracy of 94.85%. This result suggests random forests were marginally better than decision
trees.

Hsu et al. (2024) compared random forest and CatBoost for predicting rainfall using data
collected from 1998 to 2018 in Taiwan. The target was a binary variable indicating rain or no
rain. The predictor variables were “temperature, humidity, air pressure, wind direction, and
airspeed”. Data were pre-processed by removing null or missing values, transformation of
rainfall into a categorical variable, and normalizing predictors. Results showed the precision,
recall, F1, and support metrics of random forest and Catboost were 0.70, 0.70, 0.70, 11302,
and 0.69, 0.69, 0.69, 11302 respectively. Thus, random forest was marginally better than
CatBoost.

Raut et al. (2023) compared random forest regression, linear regression, support vector
regression, and decision trees for predicting rainfall. The predictors were temperature and
coastline characteristics. Results showed the random forest significantly outperformed all the
other models.

Wolfensberger et al. (2021) compared random forest and non-polarimetric quantitative
precipitation estimation (QPE) for predicting rainfall in Switzerland. The predictors were radar
data. Evaluation results revealed use of random forest minimized bias and error in the predicted
amount of rainfall. This was particularly observed in rainfall with “large and solid or mixed”
characteristics. However, the random forest model had challenges with overestimating bias
especially in low rainfall situations. Still the random forest provided faithful predictions that
were an improvement over non-polarimetric QPE.

Primajaya and Sari (2021) used a random forest to predict rainfall in Indonesia. The
predictors were temperature, mean sea/station pressure, WDSP, and MXSPD. A 10-fold cross-
validation was used. Mean absolute error and root mean square error values of 0.35 and 0.46

were observed on the test data.

12


2.3.4 Decision Tree (DT)

A Decision Tree (DT) splits data into branches based on feature thresholds, aiming to
reduce impurity (measured by metrics like Gini Index or entropy) at each node. Starting from
a root node, the tree grows by dividing the dataset into smaller subsets until reaching leaf nodes
that represent the predicted outcomes. Decision Trees are simple, interpretable, and effective
for classification and regression tasks. However, they are prone to overfitting, especially with
complex data, which can be mitigated through pruning or combining multiple trees in ensemble
methods like Random Forest (Talekar and Agrawal 2020).

Multiple studies have used decision trees for predicting rainfall. Bhardwaj and Duhoon
(2021) compared tree methods such as “Quinlan M5 algorithm, reduced error pruning tree,
random                                                 forest, logit boosting, Ada boosting”. The 
objective was to predict rainfall using daily
data collected over 17 months in India. Evaluation of MAE, RAE, RRSE, RMSE, and MAPE
performance metrics showed a random forest model outperformed all the other models under
investigation.

Resti et al. (2023) used a decision tree to predict a binary target of occurrence of rainfall
events.                                                   The predictors were “temperature, 
precipitation, sunshine, wind direction, wind speed,
humidity, and cloud type”. The model achieved an accuracy of 98.53% which indicates
decision trees are a viable technique for rainfall prediction.

Sharma et al. (2021) used a decision tree to identify critical predictors of extreme
precipitation events in Fiji Islands. The intensity of tropical cyclones was not an important
predictor as weaker tropical cyclones can result in more rainfall compared to intense cyclones.
The most important predictor of rainfall was tropical cyclone minimum distance from land
followed by “TC cluster grouping, seasonality, and duration”. These results suggest decision
trees are useful for risk evaluation.

Nurkholis et al. (2022) used a C5.0 decision tree to predict three categories of rainfall
which were low/medium/high. Predictors were date, temperature, humidity, sun, and speed
parameters. The highest accuracy was obtained using a 5-fold CV in the test subset.

13


2.3.5 Artificial Neural Networks (ANN)

Artificial neural networks are well suited to capture non-linear relationships in data. The
architecture of an artificial neural network consists of three layers. The first layer is the input
layer, the second layer is a hidden layer, and the third layer is an output layer. The purpose of
the input layer is to get data input and pass it to the hidden layer. The purpose of the hidden
layer is to perform computations. The purpose of the output layer is to provide predictions. One
or multiple neurons are used to provide final model output (Ashok & Pekatt, 2024).

Nayat et al. (2020) carried out a literature review on use of artificial neural networks in
predicting rainfall. Literature spanning over 25 years was reviewed. Artificial neural networks
were found superior compared to statistical and numerical methods such as multiple regression
and ARIMA. Similarly, Nandakumar et al. (2020) carried out a literature survey on use of
artificial neural networks for rainfall prediction. They concluded artificial neural networks
provided more accurate forecasts compared to mathematical and numerical techniques.

Several studies have used ANNs to predict rainfall. Kala et al. (2021) used a Feed
Forward Neural Architecture to predict rainfall. Predictors were “temperature, cloud cover,
vapor pressure, and precipitation”. Data pre-processing was done using normalization and a
split ratio for 60:40 for training and test subsets. Results showed the neural network had an
accuracy of 93.55% and a root mean square error of 0.254. These results demonstrate the value
of neural networks in rainfall prediction.

Mislan et al. (2020) used a backpropagation neural network architecture having two
hidden layers to predict monthly rainfall collected between 1986 and 2008 in Indonesia. Data
were preprocessed using sigmoid normalization and split into train and test subsets using a ratio
of 60% to 40%. The model achieved a mean square error of 0.00096 indicating a high accuracy
in predicting rainfall.

Aizansi et al. (2024) used a multilayer perceptron architecture to predict monthly
rainfall using data collected between 1959 and 2017. A model using this architecture was
compared                                                 to LSTM and climatology forecasts. 
Predictors were wind, temperature, pressure,
humidity, and meridian parameters. Data was pre-processed by filling in missing values with
the median and normalizing variables. Data were split into training, validation, and testing
subsets. Models were evaluated using RMSE, MAE, MAPE, and R squared metrics. On the

testing subset the performance metrics of the multilayer perceptron model were 72.41, 51.97,

14


61.64, and 0.432 respectively. The performance metrics of LSTM were 76.65, 54.53, 61.66,
and                                                 0.369 respectively. These results indicate the 
multilayer perceptron model had better
performance compared to LSTM.

Lee et al. (2022) used an optimized artificial neural network to predict rainfall using
monthly                                                   data collected between 1966 and 2017. A 
“three-layered feed-forward neural
network” architecture. Predictors were 11 variables which were used in the simple model.
Variable importance revealed there were five predictors that were most important and were
used to build an optimal model. RMSE on train, validation, and test subsets were 25.84%,
32.72%, and 34.75% respectively. These results demonstrate artificial neural networks can be
successfully used to predict rainfall.

2.3.6 Logistic Regression

Logistic regression is a statistical method used to model the probability of a binary
outcome based on one or more predictor variables. It works by applying a logistic (sigmoid)
function to a linear combination of input features, transforming the results into a range of
probabilities between 0 and 1. A threshold of 0.5 is usually used to classify observations into
one of the classes. Maximum likelihood estimation is used to estimate unbiased coefficients.
Logistic regression is particularly suitable when there is a need for simplicity and
interpretability (Anshul, 2024).

Numerous studies have used logistic regression to predict rainfall. Imon et al. (2022)
used a logistic regression model to predict rainfall using daily data collected between 1989 and
2004. Predictors were evaporation, temperature, and humidity parameters. Data were
preprocessed by checking outliers. The model had a classification accuracy of 95.25%
indicating logistic regression is useful for predicting rainfall.

Ejike et al. (2021) used a logistic regression model to predict next-day rainfall events
using one-year daily data collected in Australia. The predictors were “temperature, pressure,
humidity, sunshine, evaporation, cloud cover, wind direction, and wind speed”. A 70% subset
was used for training and a 30% subset for testing. Significant predictors of rainfall were wind
speed and pressure. Model evaluation showed an accuracy of 84% demonstrating the
usefulness of logistic regression in rainfall forecasting.

15


Khan et al. (2024) compared “logistic regression, decision trees, multi-layer perceptron,
and random forest”. Each model was selected due to its strengths. Logistic regression is simple
and easy to interpret. Decision trees are well suited to capture non-linear relationships but have
the limitation of overfitting. Multi-layer perceptrons are similarly suited to non-linear
relationships but are computationally costly and required special hyper parameter tuning.
Random forests overcome the limitation of overfitting but are difficult to interpret. Data were
pre-processed by encoding categorical variables, converting date to an appropriate format,
identifying missing values, and selecting relevant features. Model evaluation showed logistic
regression had an accuracy of 82.80% while neural network model had an accuracy of 82.59%.
These results demonstrate the usefulness of logistic regression as a simple, easy to interpret,
and accurate technique for rainfall forecasting.

2.3.7 K-Nearest Neighbor (K-NN)

K-Nearest Neighbor is a non-parametric method used for classification and regression.
A distance metric such as Euclidean, Manhattan, or Minkowski is used to capture the similarity
between observations. In classification tasks majority voting is used to assign a class. In
regression tasks an average is used for prediction (Yu & Haskins, 2021).

Multiple studies have used K-NN for rainfall prediction. Moorthy and Parameshwaran
(2022) developed a hybrid model (WOAK-NN) consisting of a whale optimization algorithm
(WOA) and K-NN to predict rainfall using daily data collected from 2013 to 2017. Twenty
predictors were used. Model evaluation using MAE, F-measure, and accuracy revealed the
hybrid WOAK-NN had better performance and was not computationally costly as it used lazy
learning.

Huang et al. (2021) developed an improved K-NN which they referred to as WKNN.
The objective of this innovation was to provide robustness which is usually affected by the
choice of the k parameter. This improved model was compared to linear and radial support
vector machines. Model evaluation revealed performance of WKNN was at par with linear and
radial                                            techniques.

Findawati et al. (2020) compared “Naïve Bayes, K-nearest neighbor, and C4.5” to
forecast rainfall using data collected from 2015 to 2018. The predictors were temperature,
humidity, wind, radiation, and rain parameters. Data were preprocessed by normalizing

variables to bring them to a common range. Data were split into a train and test subset. The

16


various parameters of k used were 3, 5, and 7. Comparison of these values of k showed the
highest accuracy was obtained with k = 7. Comparison of the models revealed K-NN had the
highest accuracy demonstrating its value in rainfall forecasting.

Yu and Haskins (2021) compared “deep neural network, wide neural network, deep and
wide neural network, reservoir computing, long short term memory, support vector machine,
and K-nearest neighbor” for precipitation forecasting using data collected over 11 years.
Predictors were precipitation, temperature, humidity, wind, pressure, and visibility parameters.
Data were preprocessed by min-max and z-score normalization. R squared, correlation, MSE,
and RMSE were used for model evaluation. Model evaluation revealed K-NN had the highest
R squared, MSE, and RMSE.

Setya et al. (2023) compared linear regression and K-NN for predicting monthly rainfall
in Indonesia using data collected between 2021 and 2023. Predictors were sunshine,
temperature, wind, and humidity parameters. Data were split into train and test subsets. Models
were compared using RMSE and MAE. Results showed K-NN had better performance
compared                                                to linear regression.

Dawoodi and Patil (2020) used K-NN to predict precipitation using daily data from
North Marashtra using data collected from 2009 to 2018. K-NN achieved an accuracy of 96%
indicating its potential usefulness.

2.3.8 ARIMA

Use of ARIMA for rainfall forecasting is well established. Vijayalakshmi et al. (2022)
compared ARIMA and linear regression for predicting annual rainfall. ARIMA has three
parameters. The parameter p captures the autoregressive process. The parameter q captures the
moving average process. The parameter q captures the order of differencing required to achieve
stationarity. Results showed ARIMA had higher accuracy in predicting seasonal and annual
rainfall and is thus suitable in agricultural applications.

Bari et al. (2022) used a Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach to predict rainfall using data
collected between 1980 and 2010 in Sylhet region of Bangladesh. The ARIMA model
developed could be used in flood, tourism, crop cycle, and urban planning management.

17


Used an ARIMA model to predict annual rainfall using data collected between 2015 and
2020 in Assam-Meghalaya region. AIC was used to select the best model. Results showed
predictions could be used to plan for earlier crop harvesting when accurate prediction of
monsoon rains were available.

Kumar and Sharma (2024) used ARIMA to predict monthly monsoon rainfall during the
months of June, July, August and September. The range of observed RMSE values was 13.88
to 51.15 mm while R squared ranged between 0.685 and 0.881. These results show the
usefulness of ARIMA in rainfall forecasting.

These machine learning methods offer diverse approaches to rainfall forecasting, each
with unique strengths and limitations. Selection of an appropriate algorithm requires
considerations such as interpretability, simplicity, computational cost and specific objectives.

2.4  Summary


Authors

Techniques

Data Frequency

Main Result


Praveena  et  al.
(2023)

Support vector
machines,
Logistic
Regression

Daily

Both techniques achieve
optimized results after
hyperparameter tuning.


Hayaty  et  al.
(2023)

Support vector
machines

Daily

Support vector machine
had an accuracy of 72%


Hapsari  et  al.
(2020)

Support vector
machines

Daily

Stochastic    gradient
optimization had better
performance  compared
to time series


Yin et al. (2022)

QM,  CDFt,

support vector
machines

Monthly

A  hybrid  SVM-QM
model outperformed the
other models

18


Al-Mahdawi et al.
(2023)

Support vector
machines

Monthly

Support vector machines
had low MAE, RMSE,
and  MSE  in  some
months  but  useful
forecasts were obtained


Du et al. (2021)

Support vector
machines

Daily

Swarm optimization was
useful  for  improving
accuracy


Velasco  et  al.
(2022)

Support vector
machines

Monthly

A radial basis kernel
produced   acceptable
accuracy as measured by
MSE


Nuthalapati.
(2024)

Decision tree,
K-Nearest
Neighbor,
Random
Forest,
Gradient
Boosting,
Logistic
Regression

Daily

Gradient Boosting and
Logistic   Regression
achieve  the  highest
accuracy of 80.95%


Anwar et al. (2020)

XGBOOST

Daily

Best   RMSE   was
obtained   at   five
iterations


Poola and Sekhar
(2021)

XGBOOST

Monthly

Model  had  a  high
accuracy of 95%

19


Nuthalapati  and
Nuthalapati (2024)

KNN,  SVM,

gradient
boosting,
XGBOOST,

logistic
regression,
random     forest

Daily

XGBOOST had superior
performance  compared
to                 the other models


Cui et al. (2021)

SSA,

LightGBM

Daily

A   hybrid   SSA-
LightGBM was superior
to either model


Sanches  et  a.
(2024)

XGBOOST

Daily

An accuracy of 90% in
classification and MAE
of 3mm in regression
were observed


Maaloul and Leidel
(2023)

Random forest,
decision  tree,
naïve  bayes,
gradient
boosting,
neural
networks

Daily

Gradient boosting had
the highest accuracy


Zhuang    and
DeGaetano (2024)

LightGBM

Daily

LightGBM had similar
performance to random
forest  and  gradient
boosting but had higher
accuracy than KNN and
linear kernel SVM

20


Raniprima et al.
(2024)

Random forest,
decision       tree

Daily

Random forest had a
marginally    higher
accuracy than decision
tree


Hsu et al. (2024)

Random forest,
CatBoost

Daily

Random forest had better
performance  compared
to CatBoost


Raut et al. (2023)

random forest
regression,
linear
regression,
support vector
regression, and
decision trees

Daily

Random forest had best
performance  compared
to the other models


Sanaboina. (2024)

Artificial
Neural
Network

Daily

Yield  accuracy  of
88.65%


Primajaya and Sari
(2021)

Random forest

Daily

MAE and RMSE values
of 0.35 and 0.46 were
observed


Bhardwaj   and
Duhoon (2021)

“Quinlan  M5
algorithm,
reduced  error
pruning  tree,
random forest,
logit boosting,
Ada boosting”

Monthly

Random forest had best
performance

21


Resti et al. (2023)

Decision tree

Daily

An accuracy of 98.53%
was observed


Sharma  et  al.
(2021)

Decision tree

Daily

Decision trees are useful
for risk evaluation


Nurkholis et al.
(2022)

C5.0 decision
tree

Daily

A high accuracy was
observed


Kaya et al. (2023)

Feed  forward
neural    network

Daily

An accuracy of 93.55%
and RMSE of 0.254 were
observed


Mislan et al. (2022)

Back
propagation
neural    network

Monthly

MSE of 0.00096 was
observed


Aizansi  et  al.
(2024)

Multi-layer
perceptron
neural
network,
LSTM,

climatology
forecasts

Monthly

Multi-layer  perceptron
outperformed LSTM

22


Ejike et al. (2021)

Logistic
regression

Daily

An accuracy of 84% was
observed


Khan et al. (2024)

“Logistic
regression,
decision trees,
multi-layer
perceptron, and
random forest”

Daily

Logistic regression had
highest accuracy


Moorthy   and
Parmershawaran
(2022)

WOAK, KNN

Daily

Hybrid model consisting
of WOAK and KNN
outperformed   either
model


Huang et al. (2020)

WKNN,

support vector
machine

Daily

WKNN was at par with
support vector machine


Lee et al. (2022)

Artificial
neural network

Monthly

RMSE value of 34.75%
was observed on test
subset


Findawati et al.
(2021)

“Naïve Bayes,
K-nearest
neighbor, and
C4.5”

Daily

KNN  had  highest
accuracy

23


Yu and Haskins
(2021)

“Deep  neural
network, wide
neural
network, deep
and    wide
neural
network,
reservoir
computing,
long short term
memory,
support vector
machine,  and
K-nearest
neighbor”

Monthly

KNN had highest MSE
and          RMSE


Setya et al. (2023)

Linear
regression,
KNN

Monthly

KNN had better RMSE
and MAE compared to
linear regression


Dawoodi and Patil
(2020)

KNN

Daily

An accuracy of 96% was
observed


Wolfensberger  et
al. (2021)

Random forest,
QPE

Daily

Random  forest  was
better than QPE

24


Table 2.1 Table of Summary

CHAPTER 3
METHODOLOGY

3.1  Introduction

This chapter presents the steps that will be followed in identifying the machine learning
algorithm that provides the highest accuracy in predicting rainfall in Selangor. The steps
involved are exhaustive review of available literature, identifying the problem to be
investigated, collecting relevant data, pre-processing data to assure its suitability, model
training, tuning model parameters, and evaluating models. This structured approach will ensure
all critical steps are followed. It is expected this approach will help in meeting study 
objectives.

3.2  Research Design

This research design will act like a blueprint that will be followed in every stage of the
study. The core objective is to compare machine learning algorithms and identify the algorithm
that provides the highest prediction accuracy. A data driven approach is followed whereby
historical weather data such as precipitation, temperature, humidity, and windspeed are the
foundation of the study. A data science lifecycle that involves data gathering, pre-processing,
parameter tuning, and model evaluation is followed.

3.3  Data Science Methodology


Literature review

Please make the figure in one page.
Don't separate like this.

Problem identification

Data collection

Data preprocessing

25


Model training


Optimized

Hyperparameter tuning

No

Model evaluation

Model deployment

Figure 1 Data Science Methodology

Please correct the format of writing the figure caption.

3.3.1 Literature Review

The first step in carrying out a study is reviewing available literature. Extant literature on
machine learning models used for predicting rainfall was reviewed. From reviewed literature
it was evident machine learning is an established technique in rainfall forecasting. Reviewed
literature revealed machine learning models are primarily used for forecasting the amount of
rainfall or classifying rainfall to several categories such as rain/no rain or intensity of rainfall
such as low/medium/high. To a lesser extent machine learning were also used to identify
critical factors that affect rainfall. Commonly used machine learning methods were support
vector machines, decision trees, K-nearest neigbour, logistic regression, gradient boosting,
XGBOOST, linear regression, and artificial neural networks. With the exception of logistic
regression all the other machine learning models can be used to predict a quantitative amount
of rainfall. It was evident in almost all studies a train and test subset were used. This provides
a subset for training the model and another subset not used for training that will be used to
evaluate model performance. Reviewed literature showed data preprocessing steps such as
checking missing values, imputing missing values, checking out of range values, and
normalizing quantitative variables to a common range are critical to performance of a machine
learning model. From the literature it was observed that some machine learning models have
hyperparameters that need to be tuned to achieve high prediction accuracies. These principles
that are well established in the literature will be incorporated in this study.

26


3.3.2 Problem Identification

Climate change has resulted in disruption of established weather patterns. This is a global
phenomenon that can lead to extreme rainfall events such as too little or too much rainfall.
These events have significant impact on public health, infrastructure, and agriculture. Although
economic activities in Selangor are not primarily agricultural, extreme rainfall events need
proper planning and mitigation. As a largely urbanized area, flooding from extreme rainfall
events such as too much rainfall can cause major disruptions in infrastructure such as public
transport, water supply, and waste management. Similarly, too little rainfall can disrupt water
supply in urban areas. In rural areas of Selangor where crops such as palm and rubber are grown
as well as livestock rearing, these extreme rainfall events can be debilitating. Too little or too
much rainfall can cause crop failure. Literature reviewed showed mitigation measures such as
changing types of crops or crop cycles were not adequate. These challenges make accurate
rainfall prediction an essential strategy in planning and management within the Selangor state
government. It is these challenges that were the main motivation of this study. This study aims
to investigate if machine learning models can be used to produce accurate rain forecasts. These
forecasts will be extremely useful to state government planners.

3.3.3 Data Collection

A dataset consisting of five variables which are date, average temperature, wind speed, relative
humidity and precipitation will be used. Use of these variables is well established in the
literature. The target variable will be precipitation and the main objective of this study is to
evaluate performance of machine learning models in predicting this variable. The predictors
will be the other variables except date. The date variable will be useful in building time series
models such as ARIMA. The selected dataset consists of daily observations covering the period
between                                               2012 and 2020.

3.3.4 Data Preprocessing

The selected dataset is expected to have some data quality issues. Exploratory data analysis
will be used to identify missing values, values that are not within the expected range, and to
understand the distribution of variables. Any missing values will be replaced with the mean
value  to avoid altering the distribution of variables. Any values that are not withing the

27


expected range will be dropped in the analysis. To ensure all variables have an equal
contribution to the model, each variable will be normalized. This will ensure all variables have
a common range. In addition, the original daily data were combined into weekly data to reduce
noise and show bigger trends in climate behaviour. A ratio of 80% to 20% will be used to split
the dataset into train and test subsets. The train subset will be used for model training while the
test subset will be used for model evaluation. These principles are well established in reviewed
literature.


3.3.5 Model Training

Are you using all these methods?

The models that will be investigated in this study are: artificial neural networks, support vector
machines, decision trees, multiple linear regression, K-nearest neighbour, random forests,
gradient boosting, and ARIMA. With the exception of linear regression all the other models
have a set of parameters that will need to be tuned to achieve the highest prediction accuracy.
These parameters are discussed for each model.

The artificial neural network has three architectural parameters that specify the general
structure. They are layers, neurons in each layer, and activation functions. The layers and
number of neurons will be used to achieve a balance between overfitting and long training time.
Activation functions such as ReLu, Tanh, and Sigmoid will be used to capture non-linear
patterns in the data. Various training parameters such as learning rate, batch size, epochs, and
optimization methods such as SGD, RMSprop, and Adam will be examined to understand their
influence on model accuracy. The dropout rate, L1, and L2 will be used to control overfitting.

The hyperparameters of a support vector machine that will need tuning are kernel,
regularization, and epsilon. A non-linear relationship is expected in the data. Therefore, only
radial basis and polynomial kernels will be examined. The regularization parameter will be
tuned to control overfitting in the model. Epsilon will be tuned to control prediction accuracy.

The K-nearest neighbour hyperparameters that will be tuned are neighbours and distance
metrics. The number of neighbours will be used to control overfitting. Various distance metrics
such as Euclidean, Manhattan, and Minkowski will be examined.

The random forest hyperparameters that will be tuned are: maximum depth, samples per
leaf/tree, maximum features/leaf nodes, and split criterion. Tuning will ensure the model
adequately captures the relationships in the data while avoiding overfitting or underfitting.

28


Gradient boosting parameters such as trees, learning rate, depth, split, subsampling, and
features will be tuned to minimize overfitting and maximize prediction accuracy.

An ARIMA model requires optimal identification of p, d, and q parameters. Visual inspection
and stationarity tests will be used to identify an optimal differencing order. The autocorrelation
and                                              partial autocorrelation functions will be used to 
identify optimal p and q parameters.

The R statistical software will be used for exploratory data analysis and model training. This
software was selected because it is freely available and provides extensive data visualization
and algorithm capabilities.

3.3.6 Model Evaluation and Comparison

Three model evaluation metrics which are Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), Mean Absolute
Error (MAE), and the Coefficient of Determination (R²) will be used to examine performance
of models under investigation.

RMSE captures the square root of the average squared differences between predicted and actual
observations. It shows the extent of large errors and is useful for identifying large deviations
in rainfall predictions. RMSE is easy to interpret as it is expressed in units of the response
variable but has the limitation of not adequately capturing the influence of outliers. The formula
for RMSE is:


RMSE =

1 n

n i=1

( yi − yˆi )

Where:

- yᵢ: Actual of observation i

- ŷᵢ: Prediction of observation i

- n: Number of observations

- Σ: Summation from 1 to i

MAE captures the average difference in the absolute predicted and actual values. This provides
a simple measure of prediction accuracy. MAE differs from RMSE as it considers all errors
equal, making it robust against outliers. The formula for MAE is:


1 n

MAE

i=1

|yi

− yˆi |

29


Where:

- yᵢ: Actual of observation i

- ŷᵢ: Prediction of observation i

- n: Number of observations

- Σ: Summation from 1 to i

R² captures the extent to which the model explains the variation in the target variable. An R²
value close to 1 shows the model is very good at capturing a high degree of the variation, while
a value close to zero is indicative of poor predictive performance. The formula for R² is:

∑( y − yˆ )²

i  i

R2   = 1−   i=1     

∑( yi − y )

2

i=1

Where:

- yᵢ: Actual of observation i

- ŷᵢ: Prediction of observation i

- n: Number of observations

- Σ: Summation from 1 to i

These metrics will be very helpful in understanding the models under investigation. The MAE
and RMSE will provide a quantitative value that indicates the difference between actual and
predicted rainfall values. This will be useful in identifying the model that provides the best
accuracy. R² indicates the extent of model overfitting or underfitting. Therefore, comparison of
these three metrics will provide a comprehensive performance evaluation.

Tables will be used to present the performance metrics of each model. This will facilitate easy
comparison of the various models.

3.3.7 Deployment

The selected machine learning model will be deployed as a prototype application to
demonstrate its practical use. This application could be integrated into an early warning system
or a web-based platform to provide real-time rainfall forecasts for stakeholders such as farmers,
city planners, and disaster management authorities. Deployment may involve creating a
Python-based application with APIs to deliver actionable insights effectively.

30



Figure 2 Logistic Regression

Make sure you use the correct format for figure caption.
The numbering of the figures should follow the chapter.

Figure 2 shows the coding on how Logistic Regression works. The input features are
Temp_avg,                                       Relative_Humidity, Wind_kmh and the target feature 
is Rain_Today. The reason
of Rain_Today be a target feature is because it is the output model to predict.

Figure 3 Random Forest

Figure 3 shows the coding on how Random Forest works. The input features are Temp_avg,
Relative_Humidity, Wind_kmh and the target feature is Rain_Today.

31


Figure 4 K-Nearest Neighbour

Figure 4 shows the coding of K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN). Import important tools and the
input features and target feature will be the same. For KNN, we must find the optimal value of
k hence why there is a coding on how to find the optimal value of k.

32


Figure 5 Finding Optimal value of K

We choose the lowest value of error. Hence, we choose 8 because the best value of k is 8.

Figure 6 K-NN

Then, we use the best value of K to make predictions.

33


Figure 7 Artificial Neural Network

Figure 7 shows how Artificial Neural Network (ANN) works. Import important tools, build
the                                                model, and train it.

34


The results in Chapter are not enough.

CHAPTER 4

DATA ANALYSIS, RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

4.1  Introduction

This chapter will present the expected outcomes from the study. After carefully following
the methodology developed earlier all study objectives will be achieved. The broad objective
of the study is to investigate the potential of using machine learning in planning and
management of extreme rainfall events in Selangor. Insights obtained from machine learning
predictions will be used for agriculture, disaster, and water management planning.

4.2  Expected Outcomes

This study is expected to meet its objectives. The first objective is to employ machine
learning for rainfall prediction. This objective has been addressed through a comprehensive
review of existing literature, which demonstrates the effectiveness of machine learning
algorithms such as artificial neural networks, support vector machines, random forests, linear
regression, K-nearest neighbours, gradient boosting, and ARIMA in forecasting rainfall. The
literature also emphasizes the importance of practices such as data quality checks, data
normalization, and appropriate train/test splits for ensuring model accuracy. Additionally,
widely                                                used evaluation metrics including RMSE, MAE, 
and R-squared will be adopted in this
project to assess model performance.

The second objective will be to train identified machine learning algorithms using the
data specified in the methodology. This objective has not been achieved. The methodology
specified earlier will be followed in training each of the selected models. It is expected careful
tuning of parameters will train models that balance computational cost, accuracy, and
overfitting.

The third objective will be to identify the machine algorithm that provides the highest
accuracy in rainfall prediction. This objective has not yet been met and it will only be achieved
after examining results from objective 2. After training the models on the train subset, the

35


performance of the models on the test subset will be examined using evaluation metrics and
test subset. It is expected comparison of evaluation metrics will identify the algorithm with the
highest                                             accuracy.

Figure 8 Random Forest Regression

The blue dots represent the actual total precipitation per year, while the orange line shows
the                                               predicted values from the model. The model uses 
yearly averages of temperature,
humidity, and wind speed to estimate total precipitation.

Please correct the format.

36


Figure 9 Correlation Matrix

The correlation matrix shows some important relationships between the weather variables.
Temperature and humidity have a strong negative relationship, meaning when the temperature
goes  up, humidity usually goes down. Temperature also has a moderate positive link with wind
speed, so higher temperatures often come with stronger winds. There is a weak negative
connection between temperature and rainfall, suggesting that hotter days tend to have less rain.
Rainfall and the “Rain Today” variable have a moderate positive link, which makes sense since
more rain usually means it rained that day. The week and year don’t strongly affect the other
variables,                                               but they may still help track changes over 
time. Overall, temperature, humidity, and
wind are useful for predicting rainfall.

4.3  Conclusions

In conclusion, this research will build and evaluate machine learning models capable of
accurately forecasting rainfall in Selangor. Using weather data and appropriate machine
learning algorithms it is expected this study will identify a machine learning algorithm that can
be incorporated into an early warning system. Such an early warning system will be critical to
success of agriculture, infrastructure, and water management planning within Selangor. This
study will demonstrate the value and limitations of using machine learning algorithms in
rainfall prediction.

37


The findings are expected to provide actionable insights for various stakeholders, enabling
better resource management, flood prevention, and agricultural planning. However, just like
any other study this study will also have limitations. These limitations will only be fully clear
after the project is completed. The findings of this study will then require interpretation in
consideration                                                   of limitations.

REFERENCES

Abbot, J. (2024). Rainfall forecasting at long lead times for eastern Australia using artificial
neural networks. Neural Computing and Applications, 36(11), 5927–5953.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00521-023-09386-z

Aïzansi, A. N., Ogunjobi, K. O., & Ogou, F. K. (2024). Monthly rainfall prediction using
artificial neural network (case study: Republic of Benin). Environmental Data Science,

3. https://doi.org/10.1017/eds.2024.10

Al-Mahdawi, H. K., Alkattan, H., Subhi, A. A., Al-Hadrawi, H. F., Abotaleb, M., Ali, G. K.,
Mijwil, M. M., Towfeek, A. K., & Helal, A. H. (2023). Analysis and prediction of rainfall
using support vector machine (SVM) in the city of Najaf. Deleted Journal, 2023, 46–54.
https://doi.org/10.58496/bjml/2023/009

Anshul. (2024, December 30). Logistic Regression: A Comprehensive Tutorial. Analytics
Vidhya.  https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2021/08/conceptual-understanding-of-
logistic-regression-for-data-science-
beginners/#:~:text=Logistic%20Regression%20is%20another%20statistical,pass%20thi
s%20exam%20or%20not.

38


Anwar, M. T., Winarno, E., Hadikurniawati, W., & Novita, M. (2021). Rainfall prediction using
Extreme Gradient Boosting. Journal of Physics Conference Series, 1869(1), 012078.
https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/1869/1/012078

Ashok, S. P., & Pekkat, S. (2024). Performance assessment of rainfall forecasting models for
urban Guwahati City using machine learning techniques and singular spectrum analysis.
Journal   of   Water   and   Climate   Change,   15(4),   1565–1587.
https://doi.org/10.2166/wcc.2024.465

Bari, S. H., Shourov, M. M. H., Rahman, M. T. U., & Ray, S. (2021). Forecasting monthly
precipitation   in   Sylhet   City   using   ARIMA   model.   ResearchGate.
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/272744442_Forecasting_Monthly_Precipitati
on_in_Sylhet_City_Using_ARIMA_Model

Bhardwaj, R., & Duhoon, V. (2021). Study and analysis of time series of weather data of
classification and clustering techniques. In International Conference on Innovative
Computing and Communications: Proceedings of ICICC 2020, Volume 1 (pp. 257-270).
Springer Singapore.

Bochenek, B., & Ustrnul, Z. (2022). Machine Learning in Weather Prediction and Climate
Analyses—Applications   and   Perspectives.   Atmosphere,   13(2),   180.
https://doi.org/10.3390/atmos13020180

Bouallègue, Z. B., Clare, M. C. A., Magnusson, L., Gascón, E., Maier-Gerber, M., Janoušek, M.,
Rodwell, M., Pinault, F., Dramsch, J. S., Lang, S. T. K., Raoult, B., Rabier, F., Chevallier,
M., Sandu, I., Dueben, P., Chantry, M., & Pappenberger, F. (2024). The Rise of Data-
Driven Weather Forecasting: A First Statistical Assessment of Machine Learning–Based
Weather  Forecasts  in  an  Operational-Like  Context.  Bulletin  of  the  American
Meteorological Society, 105(6), E864–E883. https://doi.org/10.1175/bams-d-23-0162.1

Cui, Z., Qing, X., Chai, H., Yang, S., Zhu, Y., & Wang, F. (2021). Real-time rainfall-runoff
prediction using light gradient boosting machine coupled with singular spectrum
analysis.     Journal     of     Hydrology,     603,     127124.

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2021.127124

Du, J., Liu, Y., Yu, Y., & Yan, W. (2021). A prediction of precipitation data based on support
vector machine and particle swarm optimization (PSO-SVM) algorithms. Algorithms,
10(2),                                                57. https://doi.org/10.3390/a10020057

Ejike, O., Ndzi, D. L., & Al-Hassani, A. H. (2021, June). Logistic regression based next-day rain
prediction model. In 2021 International Conference on Communication & Information
Technology (ICICT) (pp. 262-267). IEEE.

Ehteram, M., Ahmed, A. N., Khozani, Z. S., & El-Shafie, A. (2023). Convolutional Neural
Network -Support Vector Machine Model-Gaussian Process Regression: A New
Machine Model  for Predicting Monthly and Daily Rainfall.  Water Resources
Management, 37(9), 3631–3655. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11269-023-03519-8

Findawati, Y., Astutik, I. I., Fitroni, A. S., Indrawati, I., & Yuniasih, N. (2022, December).
Comparative analysis of Naïve Bayes, K Nearest Neighbor and C. 45 method in weather
forecast. In Journal of Physics: Conference Series (Vol. 1402, No. 6, p. 066046). IOP

39


Publishing.

Goodfellow, I., Bengio, Y., & Courville, A. (2021). Deep Learning. MIT Press.

Hapsari, D. P., Utoyo, M. I., & Purnami, S. W. (2020). A prediction of rainfall data based on
support    vector    machine    with    stochastic    gradient    descent.
https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/A-Prediction-of-Rainfall-Data-Based-On-
Support-With-Hapsari-Utoyo/e7589c2e3d814b077d617a03fd4026a493a6f8f3

Hayaty, N., Kurniawan, H., Rathomi, M. R., Chahyadi, F., & Bettiza, M. (2023). Rainfall
Prediction with Support Vector Machines: A Case Study in Tanjungpinang City,
Indonesia.    BIO    Web    of    Conferences,    70,    01003.

https://doi.org/10.1051/bioconf/20237001003

Hill, A. J., Schumacher, R. S., & Department of Atmospheric Science, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, Colorado. (2021). Forecasting Excessive Rainfall with Random
Forests and a Deterministic Convection-Allowing Model. In Weather and Forecasting
(Vol. 36, pp. 1693–1711) [Journal-article]. https://doi.org/10.1175/WAF-D-21-0026.1

Huang, M., Lin, R., Huang, S., & Xing, T. (2022). A novel approach for precipitation forecast
via improved K-nearest neighbor algorithm. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 33, 89–

95. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2017.05.003

Hsu, S., Sharma, A. K., Tanone, R., & Ye, Y. (2024). Predicting rainfall using Random Forest
and CatBoost models. Proceedings of the World Congress on Civil, Structural, and
Environmental Engineering. https://doi.org/10.11159/icgre24.146

Imon, A. H. M. R., Roy, M. C., & Bhattacharjee, S. K. (2022). Prediction of rainfall using logistic
regression. ResearchGate. https://doi.org/10.1234/pjsor.v8i3.535

Kala, A., & Vaidyanathan, S. G. (2020, July). Prediction of rainfall using artificial neural
network. In 2018 International Conference on Inventive Research in Computing
Applications (ICIRCA) (pp. 339-342). IEEE.

Kassem, Y., Gökçekuş, H., Çamur, H., & Esenel, E. (2021). Application of artificial neural
network, multiple linear regression, and response surface regression models in the
estimation of monthly rainfall in Northern Cyprus. Desalination and Water Treatment,
215, 328–346. https://doi.org/10.5004/dwt.2021.26525

Khan, M. U. S., Saifullah, K. M., Hussain, A., & Azamathulla, H. M. (2024). Comparative
analysis of different rainfall prediction models: A case study of Aligarh City, India.
Results in Engineering, 22, 102093. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2024.102093

Kundu, S., Biswas, S. K., Tripathi, D., Karmakar, R., Majumdar, S., & Mandal, S. (2023). A
review on rainfall forecasting using ensemble learning techniques. e-Prime - Advances
in   Electrical   Engineering   Electronics   and   Energy,   6,   100296.

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prime.2023.100296

Lee, J., Kim, C., Lee, J. E., Kim, N. W., & Kim, H. (2023). Application of artificial neural
networks to rainfall forecasting in the Geum River Basin, Korea. Water, 10(10), 1448.
https://doi.org/10.3390/w10101448

40


Mantri, R., Raghavendra, K. R., Puri, H., Chaudhary, J., & Bingi, K. (2021). Weather Prediction
and Classification Using Neural Networks and k-Nearest Neighbors. School of Electrical
Engineering,  Vellore  Institute  of   Technology,   Vellore,   India.
https://doi.org/10.1109/icscc51209.2021.9528115

Maaloul, K., & Lejdel, B. (2023). Big data analytics in weather forecasting using gradient
boosting classifiers algorithm. In Communications in computer and information science
(pp. 15–26). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-99-4484-2_2

Masui, T. (2024, February 18). All You Need to Know about Gradient Boosting Algorithm −
Part 1. Regression. Medium. https://towardsdatascience.com/all-you-need-to-know-
about-gradient-boosting-algorithm-part-1-regression-2520a34a502

Malaysian    Meteorological    Department    (2025).    Climate    Change.
https://www.met.gov.my/en/pendidikan/perubahan-iklim-and-kesan-rumah-hijau/

Mislan, N., Haviluddin, N., Hardwinarto, S., Sumaryono, N., & Aipassa, M. (2022). Rainfall
monthly prediction based on artificial neural network: A case study in Tenggarong
Station, East Kalimantan - Indonesia. Procedia Computer Science, 59, 142–151.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.07.528

Moorthy, R. S., & Parameshwaran, P. (2021). An optimal K-Nearest neighbor for weather
prediction using whale optimization algorithm. International Journal of Applied
Metaheuristic                                         Computing, 13(1), 1–19. 
https://doi.org/10.4018/ijamc.290538

Murphy, K. P. (2022). Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective. MIT Press.

nomadseason.      (2025,      January      18).      Selangor      Climate
https://nomadseason.com/climate/malaysia/selangor.html

Nandakumar, S. D., Valarmathi, R., Juliet, P. S., & Brindha, G. (2021). Artificial neural network
for rainfall analysis using deep learning techniques. Journal of Physics Conference
Series, 1964(4), 042022. https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/1964/4/042022

Nayak, D., Mahapatra, A., & Mishra, P. (2023). A Survey on Rainfall Prediction using Artificial
Neural Network. International Journal of Computer Applications, 72(16), 32–40.
https://doi.org/10.5120/12580-9217

41


N, R., S, S., & S, K. (2022). Comparison of Decision Tree Based Rainfall Prediction Model with
Data Driven Model Considering Climatic Variables. Irrigation & Drainage Systems
Engineering, 05(03). https://doi.org/10.4172/2168-9768.1000175

Analysis of Weather Data for Rainfall Prediction using C5.0 Decision Tree Algorithm. (n.d.).
IEEE      Conference      Publication      |      IEEE      Xplore.
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10180907

Nuthalapati, N. S. B., & Nuthalapati, N. A. (2024). Accurate weather forecasting with dominant
gradient boosting using machine learning. International Journal of Science and Research
Archive, 12(2), 408–422. https://doi.org/10.30574/ijsra.2024.12.2.1246

Praveena, R., Babu, T. R. G., Birunda, M., Sudha, G., Sukumar, P., & Gnanasoundharam, J.
(2023). Prediction of Rainfall Analysis Using Logistic Regression and Support Vector
Machine.   Journal   of   Physics   Conference   Series,   2466(1),   012032.
https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/2466/1/012032

Poola, K., & Sekhar, P. H. (2021). Prediction of rainfall by using extreme gradient boost (XG
boost)  in  Vishakapattanam  area,  Andhra  Pradesh.  www.mathsjournal.com.
https://www.mathsjournal.com/archives/2021/vol6/issue3/PartB/6-3-20

Primajaya, A., & Sari, B. N. (2021). Random Forest Algorithm for prediction of precipitation.
Indonesian  Journal  of  Artificial  Intelligence  and  Data  Mining,  1(1),  27.
https://doi.org/10.24014/ijaidm.v1i1.4903

Rainfall Classification using Support Vector Machine. (2021, November 11). IEEE Conference
Publication            |            IEEE            Xplore.
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9640773?casa_token=1jc-
AwxnD1gAAAAA:_JzhzW9vmtvscvyGwyG7u7-
jPfVR8lXNz27_ZcP3VQWUAjK3HXJSz0-1lvFi81_PsxiSQZvMpTE

Rainfall Prediction using Machine Learning & Deep Learning Techniques. (2020, July 1). IEEE
Conference        Publication        |        IEEE        Xplore.
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9155896?casa_token=LxLdxSohNKIAA
AAA:K2lvNktG3-9fWX1utc5z0aImybAwWQ7xdL-
wUtsI5XEqbIRSYKDlO5ok2NBLW  Ux68Mh7njgHQ

Raniprima, S., Cahyadi, N., & Monita, V. (2024). Rainfall prediction using random forest and
decision tree algorithms. Journal of Informatics and Communication Technology (JICT),
6(1), 110–119. https://doi.org/10.52661/jict.v6i1.253

Raut, A., Theng, D., & Khandelwal, S. (2023, October). Random Forest Regressor Model for
Rainfall  Prediction.  In 2023  International  Conference  on  New  Frontiers  in
Communication, Automation, Management and Security (ICCAMS) (Vol. 1, pp. 1-6).
IEEE.

Ray, K., Balachandran, S., & Dash, S. K. (2021). Challenges of forecasting rainfall associated
with tropical cyclones in India. Meteorology and Atmospheric Physics, 134(1).
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00703-021-00842-w

42


Raniprima, S., 1, Cahyadi, N., Monita, V., & School of Electrical Engineering, Telkom
University, Indonesia. (2024). Rainfall Prediction Using Random Forest and Decision
Tree Algorithms. In Journal of Informatics and Communications Technology (Vol. 6,
Issue 1, pp. 110–119) [Journal-article].

Bhardwaj, R., & Duhoon, V. (2021). Study and analysis of time series of weather data of
classification and clustering techniques. In International Conference on Innovative
Computing and Communications: Proceedings of ICICC 2020, Volume 1 (pp. 257-270).
Springer Singapore.

Sharma, K. K., Verdon-Kidd, D. C., & Magee, A. D. (2021). A decision tree approach to identify
predictors of extreme rainfall events – A case study for the Fiji Islands. Weather and
Climate Extremes, 34, 100405. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wace.2021.100405

Sanaboina, C. S. (2024). A comparative study of different machine learning techniques for
forecasting rainfall. International Journal of Computing and Artificial Intelligence, 5(2),
211–219. https://doi.org/10.33545/27076571.2024.v5.i2c.117

Sanches, R. G., Miani, R. S., Santos, B. C. D., Moreira, R. M., Neves, G. Z. D. F., Bourscheidt,
V., & Rios, P. A. T. Using Xgboost Models for Daily Rainfall Prediction. Available at
SSRN                                          4778138.

Setya, B., Nurhidayatullah, R. A., Hewen, M. B., & Kusrini, K. (2023, October). Comparative
Analysis Of Rainfall Value Prediction In Semarang Using Linear And K-Nearest
Neighbor Algorithms. In 2023 5th International Conference on Cybernetics and
Intelligent                                             System (ICORIS) (pp. 1-5). IEEE.

Talib, S. a. A., Idris, W. M. R., Neng, L. J., Lihan, T., & Rasid, M. Z. A. (2024). Irregularity and
time series trend analysis of rainfall in Johor, Malaysia. Heliyon, 10(9), e30324.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e30324

Talekar, B. (2020). A Detailed Review on Decision Tree and Random Forest. Bioscience
Biotechnology   Research   Communications,   13(14),   245–248.
https://doi.org/10.21786/bbrc/13.14/57

The  Department  of  Irrigation  and  Drainage  Malaysia.  (2025).  Rainfall  Data.
https://publicinfobanjir.water.gov.my/hujan/data-hujan/?lang=en

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (2024). The Challenges and
Complexities of Weather Forecasting. https://www.weather.gov/car/weatherforecasting

Velasco, L. C., Aca-Ac, J. M., Cajes, J. J., Lactuan, N. J., & Chit, S. C. (2022). Rainfall
Forecasting using Support Vector Regression Machines. International Journal of
Advanced     Computer     Science     and     Applications,     13(3).

43


https://doi.org/10.14569/ijacsa.2022.0130329

Vijayalakshmi, C., Sangeeth, K., Josphineleela, R., Shalini, R., Sangeetha, K., & Jenifer, D.
(2022, December). Rainfall Prediction using ARIMA and Linear Regression. In 2022
International Conference on Computer, Power and Communications (ICCPC) (pp. 366-
370). IEEE.

Wolfensberger, D., Gabella, M., Boscacci, M., Germann, U., & Berne, A. (2021). RainForest: a
random forest algorithm for quantitative precipitation estimation over Switzerland.
Atmospheric Measurement Techniques, 14(4), 3169–3193. https://doi.org/10.5194/amt-

14-3169-2021

Wani, O. A., Mahdi, S. S., Yeasin, M., Kumar, S. S., Gagnon, A. S., Danish, F., Al-Ansari, N.,
El-Hendawy, S., & Mattar, M. A. (2024). Predicting rainfall using machine learning,
deep learning, and time series models across an altitudinal gradient in the North-Western
Himalayas. Scientific Reports, 14(1). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-77687-x

Weather Prediction and Classification Using Neural Networks and k-Nearest Neighbors. (2021,
July                                                   1).    IEEE    Conference    Publication    
|    IEEE    Xplore.
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9528115?casa_token=MnoohukKgpAAA
AAA:aALPNXgQFoXmpjkSQkxLTadKyvYqQ2C2A_R5TjgPrn-
3O935SeVpNb0e_Z8Hdho4Ai19eJ-Ugvw

Yin, G., Yoshikane, T., Yamamoto, K., Kubota, T., & Yoshimura, K. (2022). A support vector
machine-based method for improving real-time hourly precipitation forecast in Japan.
Journal of Hydrology, 612, 128125. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2022.128125

Yu, N., & Haskins, T. (2021, March 28). KNN, An Underestimated Model for Regional Rainfall
Forecasting. arXiv.org. https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.15235?utm_source

Yudianto, M. R. A., Agustin, T., James, R. M., Rahma, F. I., Rahim, A., & Utami, E. (2021).
Rainfall Forecasting to Recommend Crops Varieties Using Moving Average and Naive
Bayes Methods. International Journal of Modern Education and Computer Science,
13(3),                                              23–33. 
https://doi.org/10.5815/ijmecs.2021.03.03

Zhuang, H., Lehner, F., & DeGaetano, A. T. (2024). Improved Diagnosis of Precipitation Type
with  LightGBM  Machine  Learning. Journal  of  Applied  Meteorology  and
Climatology, 63(3), 437-453.

44


45

